[Ready for review] Research Object section in Communication (#2375)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/communication/research-objects.md

(cm-ro)=
# Research Object to capture the Research Life Cycle

## Prerequisites / recommended skill level

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No previous knowledge is needed.
```

Reviewer: Or maybe actually refer people to information on metadata, since you use this in the motivation below?

## Summary

> Research outcomes encompass publications, data, software, bibliographical material and any other resources (such as experimental protocols, standards) that can be potentially useful for conduting the research. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Research outcomes encompass publications, data, software, bibliographical material and any other resources (such as experimental protocols, standards) that can be potentially useful for conducting the research. 
```

> Research Objects allow to work open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Research Objects allow to work open by design and share during the research process, instead of only sharing the research outputs at the end of a research project.
```

A Research Object can be implemented as a "Research Object Crate" that is a **machine readable "bundle"** of all research artefacts as a whole.

```{figure} ../figures/research-object.jpg
---
name: orcid-ids
alt: This image shows how research objects evolve and grow during collaboration process and how new research objects can be created.
---
Research Objects allow to work open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end. _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

(cm-ro-motivation)=
## Background & Motivation

The main motivations are:
- to organize and describe the resources, materials, and methods of the research while conducting the research and not only at the end when publishing the outcomes of the research;
- to manage the entire research lifecycle, and allow the release and publication of results progressively, keeping track of versioning and change information;

> - to share your research materials with other scientists at discrete milestones of your investigation, and collaborate via a single information unit uniquely identified by an PID, possible a DOI;

Reviewer: the PID/DOI maybe needs some explanation or a reference to the glossary

- to enhance the findability and accessibility of all the scientific outcomes through a single information unit associated with rich, machine-readable metadata;
- to facilitate reproducibility and reuse of the scientific methods and results via access to resources, context and metadata, and the possibility of forking existing results;
- to be recognized and cited (even of constituent parts) encouraging a faster release and publication of research materials;

> - to preserve results and prevent decay using provenance for partial rerun;

Reviewer: I'm not sure what is meant with 'provenance for partial rerun'

Author: we've removed the term provenance for partial rerun

Reviewer 2: yes. it is very confusing and we removed it.

In this chapter, we will introduce ROs, their typologies and which platform and technologies exist to create and publish them.

```{figure} ../figures/research-object.jpg
---
name: ro-lifecyle
alt: This image shows how research objects evolve and grow in content during the collaboration process and how new research objects can be derived from existing ones.
---
Research Objects allow working open by design and share during the research process and not only the research outputs at the end. _The Turing Way_ project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3332807).
```

(cm-ro-motivation)=
## Background & Motivation
Research objects (ROs) are living resources helping to organise and describe the inputs, materials, and methods used in a scientific experiment and obtained as a result and not only at the end when publishing the research outcomes. In short, ROs can be seen as a single information unit where any research material can be shared with other scientists at discrete milestones of the investigation. 

> The entire research lifecycle can be captured, allowing the release and publication of results progressively, keeping track of versioning and change information. ROs facilitate reproducibility and reuse of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and the possibility of forking existing ROs. As a result, ROs support evidence and support validation of findings claimed in scholarly articles.

Reviewer 3: At the end of this paragraph, these results are the effect of reproducibility. The effect of reusability (e.g. prevent researcher reinvent the wheel, save the time of other group by allowing the research material to be reused in different context).

Author: @radifar thanks for your comment, we've split the sentence below:

`ROs facilitate reproducibility and reuse of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and the possibility of forking existing ROs`

to 

`ROs facilitate reproducibility of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and reuse with the possibility of forking existing ROs.`

please let us if this is ok, we aren't sure about your last comment.

Research objects (ROs) are living resources helping to organise and describe the inputs, materials, and methods used in a scientific experiment and obtained as a result and not only at the end when publishing the research outcomes. 
ROs encompass research outputs created, revised and shared throughout the research lifecycle that help validate findings claimed in scholarly publications.
In short, ROs can be seen as a "single information unit" where any research material can be shared with other scientists at discrete milestones of the investigation within and outside the project.

Motivation behind RO is the need to identify and share all components such as data, source code, tools, method documentation, as well as communication materials such as presentations, videos, blogs and other tangible outcomes. 
The entire research lifecycle can be captured, allowing the release and publication of results progressively, keeping track of versioning and change information. 
ROs facilitate reproducibility of the scientific methods and results through access to resources, context and metadata, and reuse with the possibility of forking existing ROs. 

There are three guiding principles for RO:

> - Digital identity - Using unique identifiers, such as DOIs for tangible outcomes such as publications or data, and ORCID ids for researchers (explain in details in the next lesson).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Digital identity - Using unique identifiers, such as DOIs for tangible outcomes such as publications or data, and ORCID ids for researchers (explained in detail in the {ref}`ORCID section<cm-citable-orcidd>).
```

> - Digital identity - Using unique identifiers, such as DOIs for tangible outcomes such as publications or data, and ORCID ids for researchers (explain in details in the next lesson).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Digital identity - Using unique identifiers, such as DOIs for tangible outcomes such as publications or data, and ORCIDs for researchers (explain in details in the next lesson).
```

- Data aggregation - Using a method to aggregate all outcomes so that they are discoverable and hence allow anyone to investigate and reproduce the research.

> - Annotation - Use rich machine-readable metadata (discussed in open data) that help ensure findability and accessibility of all scientific work.

Reviewer: Which section in open data is that? A link/ref to the section is helpful!

Reviewer 2: It may have changed but I think the best reference for metadata is https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/rdm/rdm-metadata.html?highlight=metadata#metadata

Author: @EstherPlomp  I've added the crossreference to the Documentation and Metadata chapter as suggested by @annefou. See commit da2c7a32e7548c48f822f2f17598444e56f3bbb7
